Running within a tunnel
that's called the cochlea canal,
the structures that form the cochlea
are completely encased within the petrous temporal bone.
Seen from above, the axis of the spiral is perpendicular
to the long axis of the petrous temporal bone
pointing almost horizontally.
However, it's common to describe the cochlea
as if it was upright with the apex at the top.
In this dissection,
all the bone that surrounds the cochlea canal
has been removed except for a thin shell,
so we can see its overall shape.
The cochlea canal begins in the floor of the vestibule.
It first runs downwards and towards us
as seen in this antra lateral view,
then makes two and three quarters spiral turns
to end blindly here at the apex.
We'll be returning to this antra lateral view,
but for our first look inside the cochlea canal,
we'll go to a dry bone specimen that's been divided
in the horizontal plane,
and look down on it from above.
We'll flip our view so the apex of the cochlea
points upwards.
The cochlea canal spirals around
a hollow bony core, the modiolus.
Also spiraling around the modiolus
are two bony structures, the interscalar septum,
which separates at joining turns of the cochlea canal
and this projecting shelf, the spiral lamina,
which supports the basilar membrane.
At the apex, the cochlea canal ends
in a small dome, the cupola.
Beneath it, the two bony spirals end in interesting ways
as we'll see.
Along almost its whole length,
two membranes divide the cochlea into three compartments.
This is the all-important basilar membrane,
which houses the organ of hearing.
This slender membrane is Reissner's membrane.
Here are the same structures in a histologic cross-section.
Here's the basilar membrane,
here's Reissner's membrane.
The two membranes enclose the cochlear duct,
which contains endolymph
separating it from the scala vestibuli above
and the scala tympani below,
which both contain perilymph.
The cochlear duct is also known as the scala media.
The bony wall of the cochlear canal
is lined by a layer of periosteum.
In this preserved specimen,
we'll remove part of the bony wall
exposing the periosteum.
This is periosteum.
These black dots are melanocytes,
pigment cells whose function in the inner ear is uncertain.
We'll remove some of the periosteum
so we can look inside.
This is the cochlear duct.
Here's Reisner's membrane
moving a little as it's touched with a probe.
Removing part of Reisner's membrane,
we start to see the basilar membrane beneath it.
Here's the basilar membrane in full view.
To understand it better,
we'll go back to the histological image.
This is the basilar membrane.
Along its length, it's suspended
between these two structures,
the spiral lamina on the inside
and the spiral ligament on the outside.
The spiral lamina, which is formed partly of bone
projects from the modiolus.
The spiral ligament is a thickening of the periosteum.
The vital feature of the basilar membrane
is the organ of Corti that's just visible in a dissection.
It's this little bump.
This is the basilar membrane,
which moves in response to sound vibrations.
Over-hanging it, is the tectorial membrane,
which doesn't move.
Our sense of hearing depends on two sets of hair cells
in the organ of Corti.
This triple row of outer hair cells,
which actively amplify movements of the basilar membrane.
And this single row of inner hair cells,
which translate these movements into sensory nerve impulses.
Going back to the view we had before,
this is the spiral lamina,
here's the edge of the spiral ligament.
Here's the basilar membrane.
And these two thin lines indicate the inner
and outer hair cells.
Here, we can see almost the whole length
of the basilar membrane.
It starts in the floor of the vestibule
and ends just short of the apex.
Beneath the membrane here,
is the round window.
To see it, we'll remove this part of the basilar membrane
and spiral lamina.
This is the round window.
It's covered over by the round window membrane,
which faces medially into the round window recess
of the tympanic cavity.
The flexibility of the round window membrane
is what makes it possible for the stapes to move
and set up sound vibrations in the perilymph.
To see what happens at the apex of the cochlear,
where look from behind at a dry bone specimen
where we've exposed this much of the apical turn.
The specimen is transilluminated.
This is the apical turn.
This is part of the second turn.
This bony layer is the interscalar septum
that forms the floor of the cochlea canal.
It curls around beneath the cupola
twisting to end in a short free border,
which joins the underside of the cupola
to the tip of the modiolus.
This is the spiral lamina,
it curls around to end
as a free standing half crescent, the hamulus,
which supports the last part of the basilar membrane.
Here's the same area in a fresh specimen.
This is the end of the cochlear duct.
The hamulus is here.
Between the curved free border of the hamulus
and cochlear duct and the interscalar septum,
there's a circular opening, the helicotrema
where the scala vestibuli
and the Scala tympani become continuous.
Here's the apical region in a specimen
where almost all the bone has been removed.
Here's the helicotrema.
Here's the hamulus with nerve fibers fanning out from it
to supply the most distal part of the basilar membrane.
The basilar membrane ends here
just short at the end of the cochlear duct which is here.
The modiolus widens to a broad base,
which faces medially into the end
of the internal auditory canal.
The modiolus is the bony conduit
for the nerve fibers going to and from the basilar membrane.
The nerve fibers emerge through the base of the modiolus
into the internal auditory canal,
forming the cochlear nerve.